Deprecate the `sender_key` and `device_id` on Megolm events (#1101)
matrix-org/matrix-spec: content/client-server-api/modules/end_to_end_encryption.md

order to avoid false positives, as a client may decrypt the same event
twice as part of its normal processing.

Similar to Olm events, clients should confirm that the user who sent the
message corresponds to the user the message was expected to come from.
For room events, this means ensuring the event's `sender`, `room_id`, and
the recorded `session_id` match a trusted session (eg: the `session_id`
is already known and validated to the client).

{{% boxes/note %}}
As of `v1.3`, the `sender_key` and `device_id` keys are **deprecated**. They
SHOULD continue to be sent, however they MUST NOT be used to verify the
message's source.

Clients MUST NOT store or lookup sessions using the `sender_key` or `device_id`.

In a future version of the specification the keys can be removed completely,
including for sending new messages.
{{% /boxes/note %}}

{{% boxes/rationale %}}
Removing the fields (eventually) improves privacy and security by masking the
device which sent the encrypted message as well as reducing the client's

> dependence on untrusted data: a malicious server (or similar attacker) could

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dependence on untrusted data: a malicious homeserver (or similar attacker) could
```
nit

change these values, and other devices/users can simply lie about them too.

> We can remove the fields, particularly the `sender_key`, because the `session_id`
> is already globally unique, therefore making storage and lookup possible without
> the need for added context from the `sender_key` or `device_id`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can remove the fields, particularly the `sender_key` as the `session_id`
is already globally unique. Storage and lookup is therefore possible without
the need for added context from the `sender_key` or `device_id`.
```

Sentence refactoring.

Author: err, I think the proposed sentence is a bit inaccurate: the `sender_key` is being removed, not kept, so it's inaccurate to say it's "as" something. The `session_id` is something we already have.

Reviewer 2: I think it was perhaps meant as "as" in the sense of "because" or "since", but removing the comma made it ambiguous.

Author: if there's not anything unclear about the current text then I'd prefer to keep it, for "single voice" reasons.

`m.room_key` events sent by other devices in order to decrypt their
messages.

When a client is updating a session key in its store, the client MUST ensure:

> * that the updated session data comes from a trusted source, where a trusted source
>   could be the signatures on the session or comes from the user's session key backup;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* that the updated session data comes from a trusted source, where a trusted source
  could be the signatures on the session or those from the user's session key backup;
```

Author: applied manually

>   and

Reviewer 3: I think this is not quite right. The source should have an equal or higher trust, but the online key backup for example is not a trusted source, since anyone can upload sessions to it.

Author: I mean, this is straight from the MSC almost to the letter. It's possible it's considering it trusted because if the key works to decrypt the message then it's clearly valid enough, however that doesn't necessarily solve the concern.

Also, I don't think anyone except the user holding the keys to the backup can write to it? Smells like a security issue that shouldn't be discussed here if people can arbitrarily write to key backups.

Reviewer 2: It's publicly known; see the intro to the [Symmetric Megolm Backup MSC](https://github.com/uhoreg/matrix-doc/blob/symmetric-backups/proposals/3270-symmetric-megolm-backup.md#msc3270-symmetric-megolm-backup).

I'm guessing Erik just wasn't aware of this when drafting the MSC and no one caught it. In the future we'll have symmetric backups which shouldn't have this problem.

Author: I suppose that means we drop the key backup from here? Not really sure what the conclusion is...

Reviewer 2: Perhaps let's just say the following, without giving an example for now:

> that the updated session data comes from a trusted source

Reviewer: > Perhaps let's just say the following, without giving an example for now:
>> that the updated session data comes from a trusted source

This sounds reasonable to me.

> When a client is updating a session key in its store, the client MUST ensure:
> 
> * that the updated session data comes from a trusted source, where a trusted source
>   could be the signatures on the session or comes from the user's session key backup;
>   and
> * that the new session key has a lower message index than the existing session key.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When a client is updating a Megolm session (room key) in its store, the client MUST ensure:

* that the updated session data comes from a trusted source, where a trusted source
  could be the signatures on the session or comes from the user's session key backup;
  and
* that the new session has a lower message index than the existing session.
```

In order to:

1. Be explicit about this being a Megolm session. The word "session" is overloaded.
2. Use "session" instead of "session key", since there's really no sane difference between these terms. We usually say "session" or "room key", and these are synonyms on the Matrix level.

This doesn't really fix the existing terminology mess and that should be cleaned up separately, but at least we won't introduce new ambiguities.

Author: applied manually
